Hello and welcome.
In this lecture I want to provide an overview of how you can implement the Singleton design pattern
to implement the Singleton pattern.
There are different approaches and we're going to talk about multiple approaches but all of these approaches
have the same following concepts.
There's always gonna be a private constructor to restrict instantiation of the class from other classes.
This is a must.
Your constructor is gonna be private by making it private.
No clients will be able to create an instance of that class directly using the new operator.
So in all of the approaches that I'm going to talk about the constructor must be private.
You're also going to have a private static variable of the same class that is the only instance of the
class.
And we'll see how that is done.
But you basically have a private member variable.
You're also always going to have a public static method that returns the instance of the class.
This is the global access point for the everybody else in the world to get the instance of the singleton
class.
These are always common to all approaches.
Having said that there are many different ways you can implement the Singleton pattern and we're going
to talk about those.
This is the basic class diagram for the Singleton that represents just what I talk to you about on the
last slide.
The Singleton is the name of the design pattern.
We have two member variables a static instance which is private and then we have some Singleton data
which will have other data member variables for the singleton.
We then have a public static get instance method.
This will retrieve the static instance whether it's been created before or not.
We have a singleton operation those can just be operations inside the class and maybe get Singleton
data that returns other member variables right.
Here's a little note that the Singleton data gets static instance will return the actual instance the
static it instance let's look at some of the different approaches.
I'm only going to talk about five different approaches when implementing this pattern because there
are five different ways you can implement it.
It all depends on the situation and what you're looking to accomplish.
The first way you can implement it is you can use this lazy evaluation approach.
There are some issues with lazy evaluation approach mainly that it's not thread safe.
So if you're doing any kind of parallel processing you can have issues where you may not actually get
a single instance.
There could be a race condition so you want to use that lazy evaluation approach.
If you are not worried about multiple threats if you have a system where you never running multiple
threads then you can use the lazy evaluation approach.
Although this is not the recommended approach because most systems while multiple threads at some point
and you should be safe but I will tell you how you can implement the Singleton using this lazy evaluation
approach.
I'll then move on and I'll tell you how you can do a synchronised approach.
This is basically the thread safe approach to implementing the singleton.
This is used when performance is not critical to your application but it is multi threaded so you do
need some safety there.
OK it's straight one state more forward and effective but again it's not optimal in terms of there is
some performance it's so then we can have another approach which increases the performance of the thread
saying this is the double checked locking principle approach its thread safe and it's also better performing
so it increases performance from the synchronised approach.
This is the third approach that we'll talk about when implementing the Singleton.
The fourth approach is the eager evaluation approach.
This is sort of the opposite of the lazy evaluation approach.
If your application always creates and uses an instance of the singleton you'll want to use this approach.
It does not use a lot of resources which is an advantage it's thread safe.
So if you have multiple threads you're good to go in the instances created even though the client application
might not be using it.
That's one down downside to this approach is that the incidence is always created and there may be times
when you're not going to use it.
So now the fifth approach that I want to talk about which is an improvement on the C your evaluation
approach is this bill Pugh approach.
This has this is thread safe.
This is high performance.
It ensures that the instance is only created if a client needs it.
So that's a good good advantage.
It creates a singleton class using an inner static helper class.
It's regarded as the standard method to implement singletons in Java.
So this is the approach that I'm going to recommend to use.
This is the approach that you're going to need to you and your challenge and your assignment.
And that's what tried the demonstration for.
But you should be familiar with the other approaches because the other approaches will apply during
certain situations and you always want to have all the knowledge at your disposal so that you can pick
the right one for the right situation.
So there's five approaches we're going to discuss each one I'm on to show you how to implement them
and identify the advantages not advantages.